+++
title="Algorithm Substitution Attacks from a Steganographic Perspective (CCS 2017)"
date = "2017-10-30"
# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sebastian Berndt", "Maciej Liśkiewicz"]


# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In CCS, pages 1649–1660, 2017. ACM"
publication_short = "CCS 2017"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """ The goal of an algorithm substitution attack (ASA), also called a
subversion attack (SA), is to replace an honest implementation of a
cryptographic tool by a subverted one which allows to leak private information
while generating output indistinguishable from the honest output. Bellare,
Paterson, and Rogaway provided at CRYPTO'14 a formal security model to capture
this kind of attacks and constructed practically implementable ASAs against a
large class of symmetric encryption schemes. At CCS'15, Ateniese, Magri, and
Venturi extended this model to allow the attackers to work in a fully-adaptive
and continuous fashion and proposed subversion attacks against digital signature
schemes. Both papers also showed the impossibility of ASAs in cases where the
cryptographic tools are deterministic. Also at CCS'15, Bellare, Jaeger, and Kane
strengthened the original model and proposed a universal ASA against
sufficiently random encryption schemes. In this paper we analyze ASAs from the
perspective of steganography - the well known concept of hiding the presence of
secret messages in legal communications. While a close connection between ASAs
and steganography is known, this lacks a rigorous treatment. We consider the
common computational model for secret-key steganography and prove that
successful ASAs correspond to secure stegosystems on certain channels and vice
versa. This formal proof allows us to conclude that ASAs are stegosystems and to
'rediscover' several results concerning ASAs known in the steganographic
literature."""
abstract_short = ""

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Links (optional)
url_pdf = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]

caption = ""

[[links]]
    name = "Proceedings"
    url = "https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3133981"


[[links]]
    name = "Arxiv"
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1708.06199"


+++
