+++
title = "SNI-in-the-head: Protecting MPC-in-the-head Protocols against Side-channel Analysis (CCS 2020)"
date = 2020-08-20T22:33:37+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Okan Seker", "Sebastian Berndt", "Luca Wilke", "Thomas Eisenbarth"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In CCS, 2020"
publication_short = "CCS 2020"

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """
Abstract: MPC-in-the-head based protocols have recently gained much popularity and are at the brink of seeing widespread usage. With widespread use come the spectres of implementation issues and implementation attacks. Side-channel attacks are a serious threat to the security of implementations of secure cryptographic protocols due to unintended leakage of sensitive information. We show that implementations of protocols constructed by the MPC-in-the-head paradigm are vulnerable to such attacks. As a case study, we choose the ZKBoo-protocol of Giacomelli, Madsen, and Orlandi (USENIX 2016) and show that even a single leaked value is sufficient to break the security of the protocol. To show that this attack is not just a theoretical vulnerability, we apply differential power analysis to show the vulnerabilities of the device.

In order to remedy this situation, we extend and generalize the ZKBoo-protocol by making use of the notion of strong non-interference of Barthe et al. (CCS 2016). To apply this notion to ZKBoo, we construct novel versions of strongly non-interfering gadgets that balance the randomness across the different branches evenly. Finally, we show that each circuit can be decomposed into branches using only these balanced strongly non-interfering gadgets. This allows us to construct a version of ZKBoo, called $(n+1)$-ZKBoo secure against side-channel attacks with very limited overhead in both signature-size and running time. Furthermore, $(n+1)$-ZKBoo is scalable to the desired security against adversarial probes. We experimentally confirm that the attacks successful against ZKBoo no longer work on $(n+1)$-ZKBoo.
 """
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
# projects = ["jdrasil"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

caption = ""

    
[[links]]
    name = "IACR ePrint"
    url = "https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/544"


+++
