+++
title = "Online Bin Covering with Limited Migration (ESA 2019)"
date = 2019-07-01T22:33:37+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sebastian Berndt", "Leah Epstein", "Klaus Jansen", "Asaf Levin", "Marten Maack", "Lars Rohwedder"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In ESA, 2019"
publication_short = "ESA 2019"

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """Semi-online models where decisions may be revoked in a limited way
  have been studied extensively in the last years.

  This is motivated by the fact that
  the pure online model is often too restrictive to model real-world
  applications, where some changes might be allowed.
  A well-studied measure of the amount of decisions that can be revoked is the migration factor
  $\\beta$:
  When an object $o$ of size $s(o)$ arrives,
  the decisions for objects of total size at most $\\beta\\cdot s(o)$ may be revoked.
  Usually $\\beta$ should be a constant.
  This means that a small object only leads to small changes.
  This measure has been successfully investigated for
  different, classical problems such as bin packing or makespan minimization.
  The dual of makespan minimization - the Santa Claus or machine covering
  problem - has also been studied, whereas the dual of bin packing - the bin
  covering problem - has not been looked at from such a perspective.

  In this work, we extensively study the bin covering problem with migration in
  different scenarios. We develop algorithms both for the static case - where
  only insertions are allowed - and for the dynamic case, where items may also
  depart. We also develop lower bounds for these scenarios both for amortized
  migration and for worst-case migration showing that our algorithms have
  nearly optimal migration factor and asymptotic competitive ratio (up to an arbitrary
  small $\\epsilon$). We therefore resolve the competitiveness of the bin covering
  problem with migration.
 """
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
# projects = ["jdrasil"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

caption = ""

    
[[links]]
    name = "Arxiv"
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.06543"


+++
