+++
title = "Practical Access to Dynamic Programming on Tree Decompositions (ESA 2018)"
date = 2018-06-19T22:33:37+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Max Bannach", "Sebastian Berndt"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In ESA, 2018"
publication_short = "ESA 2018"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """Parameterized complexity theory has lead to a wide range of algorithmic 
breakthroughs within the last decades, but the practicability of these 
methods for real-world problems is still not well understood. We investigate the practicability of one of the fundamental approaches of this field: dynamic programming on tree decompositions. Indisputably, this is a key technique in parameterized algorithms and modern algorithm design. Despite the enormous impact of this approach in theory, it still has very little influence on practical 
implementations. The reasons for this phenomenon are manifold. One of them is 
the simple fact that such an implementation requires a long chain of 
non-trivial tasks (as computing the decomposition, preparing it,...). We 
provide an easy way to implement such dynamic programs, thereby essentially 
reducing the chain to the last part. With this interface, dynamic programs for 
various problems, such as 3-coloring, can be implemented easily in 
about 100 lines of structured Java code. 

The theoretical foundation of the success of dynamic programming on tree 
decompositions is well understood due to Courcelle's celebrated theorem, which 
states that every MSO-definable problem can be efficiently solved if 
a tree decomposition of small width is given. We seek to provide practical 
access to this theorem as well, by presenting a lightweight model-checker for 
a small fragment of MSO. This fragment is powerful enough to 
describe many natural problems, and our model-checker turns out to be very 
competitive against similar state-of-the-art tools."""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["jdrasil"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

caption = ""

[[links]]
    name = "Proceedings"
    url = "http://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/2018/9469/pdf/LIPIcs-ESA-2018-6.pdf"
    
[[links]]
    name = "Arxiv"
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.10176"

[[links]]
    name = "Journal"
    url = "https://doi.org/10.3390/a12080172"


+++
**Best Student Paper Award**
