+++
title = "Jdrasil: A Modular Library for Computing Tree Decompositions (SEA 2017)"
date = "2017-06-21"
# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Max Bannach", "Sebastian Berndt", "Thorsten Ehlers"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In SEA, volume 75, of LIPIcs, pages 28:1–28:21, 2017. Schloss Dagstuhl - Leibniz-Zentrum fuer Informatik"
publication_short = "SEA 2017"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """While the theoretical aspects concerning the computation of tree
width - one of the most important graph parameters - are well understood, it is
not clear how it can be computed practically. We present the open source Java
library Jdrasil that implements several different state of the art algorithms
for this task. By experimentally comparing these algorithms, we show that the
default choices made in Jdrasil lead to an competitive implementation (it took
the third place in the first PACE challenge) while also being easy to use and
easy to extend. """
abstract_short = ""

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

projects = ["jdrasil"]
# Links (optional)
url_pdf = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]

caption = ""

[[links]]
    name = "Proceedings"
    url = "http://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/2017/7605/pdf/LIPIcs-SEA-2017-28.pdf"

+++
