+++
title = "Positive-Instance Driven Dynamic Programming for Graph Searching (WADS 2019)"
date = 2019-04-13T10:34:41+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Max Bannach", "Sebastian Berndt"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In WADS Algorithms and Data Structures Symposium"
publication_short = "WADS, 2019"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """Research on the similarity of a graph to being a tree – called
the treewidth of the graph – has seen an enormous rise within the last
decade, but a practically fast algorithm for this task has been discovered
only recently by Tamaki (ESA 2017). It is based on dynamic program-
ming and makes use of the fact that the number of positive subinstances
is typically substantially smaller than the number of all subinstances. Al-
gorithms producing only such subinstances are called positive-instance
driven (PID). We give an alternative and intuitive view on this algo-
rithm from the perspective of the corresponding configuration graphs in
certain two-player games. This allows us to develop PID-algorithms for
a wide range of important graph parameters such as treewidth, path-
width, q-branched treewidth, treedepth and dependency-treewidth. We
analyse the worst case behaviour of the approach on some well-known
graph classes and perform an experimental evaluation on real world and
random graphs."""
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = ["jdrasil"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

caption = ""


[[links]]
    name = "Proceedings"
    url = "https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-24766-9_4"
    
[[links]]
    name = "Arxiv"
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.01134"





+++
