+++
title = "Robust Online Algorithms for Certain Dynamic Packing Problems (WAOA 2019)"
date = 2019-07-01T22:33:37+02:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Sebastian Berndt", "Valentin Dreismann", "Kilian Grage", "Klaus Jansen", "Ingmar Knof"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In WAOA, 2019"
publication_short = "WAOA 2019"

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = true

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = """
  Online algorithms that allow a small amount of migration or recourse have been
  intensively studied in the last years. 
  They are essential in the design of competitive algorithms for dynamic
  problems, where objects can also depart from the instance. 
  In this work, we give a general framework to obtain so called robust online
  algorithms for a variety of dynamic problems: 
  these online algorithms achieve an asymptotic competitive ratio of
  $\\gamma+\\epsilon$ with migration $O(1/\\epsilon)$, where $\\gamma$ is the best
  known offline asymptotic approximation ratio.
  For our framework, we require only two ingredients: 
  (i) the existence of an online algorithm for the static case (without
  departures) that provides a provably good solution compared to the total
  volume of the instance and (ii) that the optimal solution always exceeds this
  total volume. 
  If these criteria are met, we can complement the online algorithm with any
  offline algorithm.

  While these criteria are naturally fulfilled by many dynamic problems, they
  are especially suited for packing problems. 
  In order to show the usefulness of our approach in this area, we improve upon
  the best known robust algorithms for the dynamic versions of generalizations
  of Strip Packing and Bin Packing, including the first robust algorithms for
  general $d$-dimensional Bin Packing and Vector Packing. 
 """
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
# projects = ["jdrasil"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]


# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]

caption = ""

    
[[links]]
    name = "Arxiv"
    url = "https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.07986"


+++
